Bulletin No:31 WWL/HI/24/03/31/01

COLOR: Amber

Heat index Advisory Issued by the Natural Hazards Early Warning Centre At 4.00 p.m. 31 March 2024, valid for 01 April 2024

For Western, Southern, North-western, North-Central, Eastern provinces and

Ratnapura, Monaragala, Mannar, Vavuniya and Mullaitivu districts PLEASE BE AWARE Heat index, the temperature felt on human body is expected to increase up to ‘Caution level’ at some places in Western, Southern, North-western, North-Central, Eastern provinces and Ratnapura, Monaragala, Mannar, Vavuniya and Mullaitivu districts.

The Heat Index Forecast is calculated by using relative humidity and maximum temperature and this is the condition that is felt on your body. This is not the forecast of maximum temperature. It is generated by the Department of Meteorology for the next day period and prepared by using global numerical weather prediction model data. Effect of the heat index on human body is mentioned in the above table and it is prepared on the advice of the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medical Services. ACTION REQUIRED Job sites: Stay hydrated and takes breaks in the shade as often as possible.

Indoors: Check up on the elderly and the sick.

Vehicles: Never leave children unattended.

Outdoors: Limit strenuous outdoor activities, find shade and stay hydrated.

Dress: Wear lightweight and white or light-colored clothing.

Note:

In addition, please refer to advisories issued by the Disaster Preparedness & Response Division, Ministry

of Health in this regard as well. For further clarifications please contact 011-7446491.